---
layout: post
title:  "Distributed File System"
summary: "A part of ransomware testing framework"
author: moomoohorse
date: '2023-05-20 14:56:22 -0500'
category: ['research']
thumbnail: /assets/img/posts/DFS.png
keywords: undergraduate-research
permalink: /blog/dfs
usemathjax: true
marp : true
theme : gaia 
class : invert
---

# Distributed File System

- Storage
- Communications
- Computation
---

# Distributed System

---

## Abstractions

> Distributed System **abstraction** is to fake it so that it hides its distributed identity. 

Although not so likely, the goal is to let people use distributed system just like a normal, single-machine system.

---

### Implementation

- RPC
- threads
- concurrency control

---

## Performance 

- Scalability : 2 computers meeans 2 times throughput.

Bottle-neck can shift.

Eg. Client-Server-DB 

Adding servers can't guarantee scalable performance increase once the # of server is beyond a certain level.

---

## Fault Tolerance

Masking of failure (which is trivial in non-distributed system) needs to be considered in your design.

- Availablility
- Recoverability

Key : 

Non-volatile System

Replication

---

## Consistency

- Put(k, v)
- Get(k) -> v

---


## Map Reduce

> Non-specialist can run software in distributed system without knowing details

Map Reduce is a typical kinds of problems. 

When we have these problems, we first write our map and reduce functions. Then the framework will distribute those workload to distributed systems.

---

### Word Count : Map Reduce

```
Map(k,v) : // k as filename v as text

1. Split v into words w
2. For each word in w
    * emit (w, 1)
```

```
Reduce(k, v) : // k is word, v is a vector containing values of corresponding key
    emit(len(v))

```

---

# GFS

---


## Why hard?

Performance -> Sharding

Faults -> Tolerance

Tolerance -> Replication

Replication -> In consistency

Consistency -> Low performance

---

## Replication

* State Transfer
  * Directly dump the content of storage mediat to anther place

* Replicated State Machine
  * Observation : Most of services can be dermined by **internal instructions** and **external output**.

In ransomware testing framework, both should be subject to test.

 